# Install

<https://github.com/splunk/deep-learning-toolkit/blob/master/docs/admin/install.md>

## Installing Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk

The Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk is a regular Splunk app which runs on a Splunk Search Head. That may be a standlone Search Head or a Search Head Cluster.

If you want to learn more about setting up a Splunk environment, please see the official Splunk Installation Manual.

Currently, DLTK v4 is still under development and not yet released on Splunkbase. But you can install DLTK v4 from this repository. The Splunk app itself is located in the app folder, in the root of this repository.

Depending on the deployment type of your Splunk environment (standlone Search Head vs. Search Head cluster) as well as your preferred app deployment method (Deployment Server vs. Upload via Splunk Web vs. Search Head Deployer vs. 3rd Party Deployment Software), you either use a copy of the app folder as it is, or you create an app package (using tools like tar, gzip or slim). To learn more about the methods to deploy Splunk apps in Splunk Enterprise environments, please see the App Deployment documentation.

The following illustrates the installation process on a standalone Splunk Search Head or single-instance Splunk environment:

git clone https://github.com/splunk/deep-learning-toolkit.git
cd deep-learning-toolkit
cp -r app/ $SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/dltk
$SPLUNK_HOME/bin/splunk restart
Once installed, you can navigate to the Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk in the Splunk web interface.

Next, please see the Configure Users and Roles documentation.

## Configure Users and Roles

DLTK uses Splunk's role-based access control system.

A regular Splunk user (a user importing the built-in user role) can open DLTK dashboards, but cannot change/manage anything nor execute algorithms. A Splunk admin user (a user importing the built-in admin role) has all the capabilities requires for administrating DLTK.

DLTK adds the following roles:

dltk_user
dltk_engineer (imports dltk_user role)
dltk_admin (imports dltk_engineer role)
Users in the dltk_user role can execute DLTK algorithms. Users in the dltk_engineer role can create, delete and configure DLTK algorithms and deploy algorithms to environments. Users in the dltk_admin role can create, delete and configure DLTK environments and configure DLTK system-level objects.

Depending on what the users of your Splunk environment should be able to do, make sure the corresponding Splunk user objects import one of the above DLTK roles.

The following steps describe how to assign a DLTK role to an existing Splunk user:

Open the Splunk web interface
Click on Settings in the top Splunk bar
Click on Users in the Users and Authentication section
Identify the user that you want to assign a DLTK role to
Click on Edit in the Actions table column
Assign roles by clicking on the DLTK role name (dltk_user, dltk_engineer or dltk_admin) in the list of Available item(s) to make sure they appear in the list of Selected item(s)
Click Save
Next, please see the Connecting to Environments documentation.

## Connect to Environments

Environments are part of the core concept of DLTK. In order to deploy and use an Algorithm, it must be deployed to an Environment. If you want to learn more about these core concepts, please see the Core Concepts in the User Guide.

The following steps describe how to create a new DLTK Environment:

Open the Splunk web interface
Open the Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk app
Click on Configuration and then Environments in the navigation bar
Click the Create New Environment button (upper right corner of the dashboard)
Enter a name for the new Environment
Select a Connector (once selected, additional fields will appear)
Important: Populate some of the additional fields, please see Kubernetes for details
Click on Save button
Next, validate the Environment settings, by following steps to deploy one of the built-in Algorithms into the new Environment:

Click on Algorithms DLTK in the navigation bar
Identify Named Entity Recognition and Extraction in the list and click on Add Deployment in the menu on the Actions column on the very right
Select the new Environment (once selected, additional fields will appear)
If required, populate some of the additional fields
Click the Create button - a spinning wheel indicated that the algorithms is being deployed
Ideally, things go well and a green checkmark icon appears - otherwhich a red icon indicates a problem (click on the status icon to show the deployment logs)
To see the Algorithm in action, open the example dashboard from navigation bar (Examples -> NLP -> Entity Recognition and Extraction Example using the spaCy Library)