# Install

<https://github.com/splunk/deep-learning-toolkit/blob/master/docs/admin/install.md>

## Installing Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk

The Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk is a regular Splunk app which runs on a Splunk Search Head. That may be a standlone Search Head or a Search Head Cluster.
Splunk용 Deep Learning Toolkit은 Splunk 검색 헤드에서 실행되는 일반 Splunk 앱. 독립형 검색헤드 또는 검색헤드 클러스터

If you want to learn more about setting up a Splunk environment, please see the official Splunk Installation Manual.
Splunk 환경 설정에 대한 자세한 내용은 공식 Splunk 설치 매뉴얼을 참조하십시오.

Currently, DLTK v4 is still under development and not yet released on Splunkbase. But you can install DLTK v4 from this repository. The Splunk app itself is located in the app folder, in the root of this repository.
현재 DLTK v4는 아직 개발 중이며 Splunkbase에서 아직 출시되지 않았습니다. 그러나이 저장소에서 DLTK v4를 설치할 수 있습니다. Splunk 앱 자체는이 저장소의 루트에있는 앱 폴더에 있습니다.

Depending on the deployment type of your Splunk environment (standlone Search Head vs. Search Head cluster) as well as your preferred app deployment method (Deployment Server vs. Upload via Splunk Web vs. Search Head Deployer vs. 3rd Party Deployment Software), you either use a copy of the app folder as it is, or you create an app package (using tools like tar, gzip or slim). To learn more about the methods to deploy Splunk apps in Splunk Enterprise environments, please see the App Deployment documentation.
Splunk 환경의 배포 유형 (독립형 검색 헤드 대 검색 헤드 클러스터)과 선호하는 앱 배포 방법 (배포 서버 대 Splunk 웹을 통한 업로드 대 검색 헤드 배포자 대 타사 배포 소프트웨어)에 따라 앱 폴더의 복사본을 그대로 사용하거나 tar, gzip 또는 slim과 같은 도구를 사용하여 앱 패키지를 만듭니다. Splunk Enterprise 환경에서 Splunk 앱을 배포하는 방법에 대한 자세한 내용은 앱 배포 설명서를 참조하십시오.

The following illustrates the installation process on a standalone Splunk Search Head or single-instance Splunk environment:
다음은 독립 실행 형 Splunk 검색 헤드 또는 단일 인스턴스 Splunk 환경에서의 설치 프로세스를 보여줍니다.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/splunk/deep-learning-toolkit.git
cd deep-learning-toolkit
cp -r app/ $SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/dltk
$SPLUNK_HOME/bin/splunk restart
```

Once installed, you can navigate to the Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk in the Splunk web interface.
설치가 완료되면 Splunk 웹 인터페이스에서 Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk로 이동할 수 있습니다.

Next, please see the Configure Users and Roles documentation.

## Configure Users and Roles

DLTK uses Splunk's role-based access control system.

A regular Splunk user (a user importing the built-in user role) can open DLTK dashboards, but cannot change/manage anything nor execute algorithms. A Splunk admin user (a user importing the built-in admin role) has all the capabilities requires for administrating DLTK.

DLTK adds the following roles:

- dltk_user
- dltk_engineer (imports dltk_user role)
- dltk_admin (imports dltk_engineer role)

Users in the dltk_user role can execute DLTK algorithms. Users in the dltk_engineer role can create, delete and configure DLTK algorithms and deploy algorithms to environments. Users in the dltk_admin role can create, delete and configure DLTK environments and configure DLTK system-level objects.

Depending on what the users of your Splunk environment should be able to do, make sure the corresponding Splunk user objects import one of the above DLTK roles.

The following steps describe how to assign a DLTK role to an existing Splunk user:

Open the Splunk web interface
Click on Settings in the top Splunk bar
Click on Users in the Users and Authentication section
Identify the user that you want to assign a DLTK role to
Click on Edit in the Actions table column
Assign roles by clicking on the DLTK role name (dltk_user, dltk_engineer or dltk_admin) in the list of Available item(s) to make sure they appear in the list of Selected item(s)
Click Save
Next, please see the Connecting to Environments documentation.

## Connect to Environments

Environments are part of the core concept of DLTK. In order to deploy and use an Algorithm, it must be deployed to an Environment. If you want to learn more about these core concepts, please see the Core Concepts in the User Guide.

The following steps describe how to create a new DLTK Environment:

Open the Splunk web interface
Open the Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk app
Click on Configuration and then Environments in the navigation bar
Click the Create New Environment button (upper right corner of the dashboard)
Enter a name for the new Environment
Select a Connector (once selected, additional fields will appear)
Important: Populate some of the additional fields, please see Kubernetes for details
Click on Save button
Next, validate the Environment settings, by following steps to deploy one of the built-in Algorithms into the new Environment:

Click on Algorithms DLTK in the navigation bar
Identify Named Entity Recognition and Extraction in the list and click on Add Deployment in the menu on the Actions column on the very right
Select the new Environment (once selected, additional fields will appear)
If required, populate some of the additional fields
Click the Create button - a spinning wheel indicated that the algorithms is being deployed
Ideally, things go well and a green checkmark icon appears - otherwhich a red icon indicates a problem (click on the status icon to show the deployment logs)
To see the Algorithm in action, open the example dashboard from navigation bar (Examples -> NLP -> Entity Recognition and Extraction Example using the spaCy Library)