# Developer Guide

<https://github.com/splunk/deep-learning-toolkit/tree/master/docs/developer>

This guide is divided into the following sections:

- Contributing Guidelines
- Running Tests
- Building from Sources
- Creating Tests
- Development Environment

## Contributing Guidelines

Thank you for considering spending your time contributing to the Deep Learning Toolkit for Splunk. Whether you're interested in bug-hunting, documentation, or creating entirely new features, this document will help and guide you through the process.

Issues & Bug Reports
If you're seeing some unexpected behavior with this project, please create an issue on GitHub providing the following information:

Version of the project you're using (e.g. 4.0.0)
Platform version (e.g. Linux)
Browser and version you're using (e.g. Chrome 80.0.3987)
Splunk version (e.g. 8.0.4)
Any other relevant information
Pull Requests
We love to see your fixes via pull requests!

To create a pull request:

Fork the project
Create a branch for the issue
Make your changes on your branch
Thoroughly test your changes
Perform a pull request against the develop branch
Remember:

Any pull request to Master will not be accepted
Address an issue per branch
Thank you for your valuable contributions!

## Running Tests

Test Guide
This guide is intended for DLTK developers and anyone who wants to create and run DLTK tests.

Running Tests
The main script for running tests is test/test.py, located in the root of the repository. The following sections describe possible ways for executing the test script.

From Shell
The most straightforward approach is running the test/test.bash shell script.

The following illustrates the how to run the tests:

cd $DLTK_REPO/test
./test.bash
Requirements:

A Splunk Enterprise instance is running at $SPLUNK_HOME on the same host
The environment variable SPLUNK_PASSWORD is set to the password of the admin user of the Splunk instance
The DLTK Splunk app is installed on the instance (typically by symlinking the app folder to SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/dltk)
DLTK is already configured and connected a Kubernetes execution environment.
The environment variable DLTK_ENVIRONMENT is set to the name of the Kubernetes execution environment
The environment variable DLTK_APP_NAME is set to the name of the DLTK Splunk app (defaults to dltk)
From Visual Studio Code
This repository contains Visual Stop Code configuration, including a Task definition (see .vscode/tasks.json) for running the tests.

Use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+Shift+P to open the command palette and enter Tasks: Run Test Task.

Optionally, environment variables (like DLTK_ENVIRONMENT and SPLUNK_PASSWORD) can be defined in the file run.env, located in the test/ folder. For example:

DLTK_ENVIRONMENT="my-kubernetes-cluster"
SPLUNK_PASSWORD="changeme"`
Note: Since the task wraps the test/test.bash shell script, the same requirements apply here.

From Building DLTK
One of the steps that are part of the DLTK build process is running the tests.

If you are looking for documentation on how to build DLTK, please see the Build Guide.

Creating Tests
If you want to create and add tests for DLTK, create the test_*.py file in the module that contains the code that you want to test.

Tests are build using the https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html Python testing framework.

TODO: Explain the different type of tests and provide a examples

## Building from Sources

Build Guide
This guide is intended for DLTK developers and anyone who wants to build the DLTK app as well as the container images required by DLTK runtimes.

The build folder, located in the root of this repository, contains scripts and artefacts for building DLTK.

That includes a AWS CodeBuild specification containing all the steps required for building and testing DLTK:

Building runtime container images
Packaging the DLTK Splunk app
Settings up a local Kubernetes cluster (k3d)
Instelling an Ingress Controller (HAProxy)
Starting a HDFS Cluster
Installing the Spark Operator
Installing the Splunk Operator
Starting a Splunk Enterprise instance
Installing and configuring the DLTK Splunk app
Running all the tests
If you want to run builds in our AWS account, please see the AWS CodeBuild use guide.

If you want to run builds locally, please see the Announcing Local Build Support for AWS CodeBuild blog post. This repository contains a helper script to kick of the local build.

## Development Environment

Development Environment
VSCode ..
Host (Laptop)
VSCode
Remote Extension
dind Container
Kind
Control Plane Node
NGINX Ingres Controller
Worker Node
Splunk Pod
DLTK Pods

